

## AGGREGATE FUNCTIONS

Count(attribute_name)
Sum(attribute_name)
Average(attribute_name)
Max(attribute_name)

Aggregate function always discards null value

Average(mark) = Sum(marks)/Count(marks)

Average Distinct(marks) = Sum Distict(marks) / Count Distinct(Marks)

Arithmatic operation NULL, result is NULL

NULL + S = NULL


GROUP BY:
    It groups the table based on the specified attribute


UPDATE R SET marks=marks+5
SELECT AVERAGE(marks) from R

HAVING:
    Used to select the group those which satisfy the condition

    Condition is for each group
    
    

Whenever group by exists then aggregations(min marks) done for each
group

SELECT AVG(MIN(marks)) FROM student GROUP BY branch;

If aggregation operator and other used operator in select clause

SELECT BRANCH, MIN(marks) FROM student;
(Such syntax not allowed in sql language)

IF aggregate operator is used in select clause, is allowed if other attribute in group by clause.

SELECT MIN(a,b) FROM R GROUP BY c

Ques. RETRIVE SID and MARKS of students who secured highest marks

SELECT sid, marks FROM students group by sid having MAX(marks)

select sid, marks from student where marks=(select max(marks) from student);



% --> zero or any no. of characters
_ --> Exacty one character

Q. find student name whose name start with D and end with A and atlest 5 char

SELECT name from student where name like D_ _ _%A

Q. find the name of name of student 


SELECT name from student where name not like A%




Queries

1. Retrive the bday and address of the employee whose name is
    'John D Smith'

2. For every project located in 'Stanford' least the project number, the 
    controlling department number and the department manager last name, 
    address and bdate. 

3. Find all employees whose range in salary (30,000 - 40,000)

4. Find all employee whose department is either 5 or 1.

5. Find the employee with max salary.

6. Find the name of the project at location 'Bellair', 'Houston', 'Stanford',
    'SugarLand' in above sequence

7. Find all employees under same supervision.

8. FInd avg salary of employee according to their department.

    SELECT department, avg(salary) from employee GROUP BY department;

9. Make a list of all prject no from project that involve a employee
    whose last name is 'Smith' either as a worker or as a manager of the 
    dependent that controls the project.

10. Retrive all employee whose address is in 'Houston ,TX '

11. Find all employee who were born during the 1950s

12. Show the resultant salary if every employee working on product X
    project is given a 10% raise.

13. Select all employee in department 5 whose salary is in between
    30000 and 40,0000

14. Retrive the name of all employee who do not have supervision

        WHERE super_ssn IS NULL

15. Retrive a list of employees and the project they are work on, ORDER BY
    DEPARTMENT and with each department order by alphable fname and lname.







